## Arch Linux
{% include_relative table.html distro="Arch Linux" logo="ArchLinux.svg" category="Minimalist, Desktop, Server" country="Canada" date="2002" developer="Community" funding="Donations" init-system="systemd" package-manager="<a href='https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Pacman' link='_blank'>pacman</a>" browser="None" release-model="Rolling" text-editor="nano/vi<sup><a href='#fn:1' class='footnote'>1</a></sup>" office-suite="None" architecture="arm, i686, x86_64" broadcom="No" fuse="Yes" uefi="Yes" firefox="50.1.0" glibc="2.24" gnome="3.22.2+18+gdf7727a" libreoffice="5.2.3" linux="4.8.14" xorg="1.19.0" bash="4.4" systemd="232" gcc="6.2.1" zsh="5.3" desktop="None" emacs="25.1" nano="2.7.2" vim="8.0" atom="Yes" atom-avail="Yes" spotify="From the AUR only" spotify-avail="Partial" runescape="From the AUR only" runescape-avail="Partial" flatpak-avail="Yes" flatpak="Yes" snap-avail="Yes" snap="Yes" sagemath-avail="Yes" sagemath="Yes" scilab-avail="Partial" scilab="From the AUR only" bootloader="None, GRUB2 and syslinux" %}

[**Arch Linux**](https://www.archlinux.org/) is a minimalist Linux distribution that follows a bleeding-edge rolling release model. It started out in early 2001 as a side project of Judd Vinet, a Canadian programmer. He was inspired by the *simplicity* of the &#42;BSDs and Slackware, amongst other operating systems available at the time, but disappointed by their lack of suitable package management systems. So he devised a lightweight and simple package manager specifically for Arch Linux and called it pacman. What is meant by *simplicity* in this context is without unnecessary additions or changes. It also means with the minimum set of default, pre-installed software. The set of default pre-installed software are in the [`base`](https://www.archlinux.org/groups/x86_64/base/) group. Arch Linux's first public release was in March 2002.<sup><a href='#fn:3' class='footnote'>3</a></sup> It is more oriented towards advanced users, specifically users that are:

* Comfortable with the command-line. If one is uncomfortable with the command-line one will likely struggle during the initial stage of setting up Arch Linux. It will likely also be a problem later as system management and installing new packages is best (but not strictly necessarily) done from the command-line. Some unofficial graphical tools for package management do exist, like [Octopi](https://octopiproject.wordpress.com/) and [Pamac](https://wiki.manjaro.org/index.php?title=Pamac), but they are not officially supported.
* Able to handle system-breaking bugs, like kernel bugs that prevent the system from booting.
* Know how to write a good, detailed, well-written forum question. The Arch Linux forum community can get quite rude if one does not write one's questions well and detailed.
* Want a high degree of control over their system. The [Arch Build System](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_Build_System) (ABS) can be used to re-build software in the official repositories with different configure options and even with different package versions.
* Do not want to compile (most) their packages from source. Some software (such as that in the [Arch User Repository](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository) (AUR)) has to be compiled from source, unless one wishes to use unofficial, potentially dangerous repositories, that may contain the AUR packages one wants.
* Learn well by reading written documentation (as opposed to people that learn best from doing, being taught in person, or watching a video tutorial), as it has an extensive Wiki known as [*The ArchWiki*](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Main_page).

Arch Linux has the most extensive repositories of any distribution I know of, that is, if one includes the AUR which contains user-submitted PKGBUILDs (PKGBUILDs are the Arch Linux packaging-specific source files). As AUR packages are not all submitted by experts or otherwise experienced packagers it is considered potentially harmful and risky to install software from the AUR.

{% include Layouts/clear.html %}
