## Fedora
{% include_relative infoboxes/05-fedora.html %}

[**Fedora**](http://getfedora.org/) is a Linux distribution that is developed by its own open-source community project known as the *Fedora Project*. This project is funded by Red Hat, the world's largest (in terms of annual revenue) Linux company, and Red Hat also assumes the legal liability from the project. Around one in four contributors to the Fedora Project are Red Hat employees, but the remaining 75% of Fedora contributors are community volunteers. The most important decisions pertaining to Fedora are made by the [*Fedora Council*](http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Council), which consists of Red Hat-appointed representatives and members of the volunteer community.{% include_relative includes/fn-inline.html no="6" %} Fedora previously used the yum package manager that CentOS still uses, but as of the release of Fedora 22 in May 2015, it now uses the DNF package manager (its source code can be found [here](https://github.com/rpm-software-management/dnf) by default. DNF is essentially a rewrite of yum, using the faster dependency resolver, libsolv, which was originally written for openSUSE's package manager, ZYpp.

Fedora is used as the basis for CentOS and the Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) distribution, the premier product of Red Hat. It is also used as the basis for a couple more obscure distributions, namely [Chapeau](http://chapeaulinux.org/) and [Korora](https://kororaproject.org/). These last two distributions are more up-to-date than CentOS, and a new release of these distributions usually follows a new release of Fedora by only a month or two. Each new release of distributions is based on a new release of Fedora. Extra indirect Fedora derivatives can be found in the fact that RHEL is used as the basis for [Oracle Linux](http://www.oracle.com/us/technologies/linux/index.html) and [Scientific Linux](https://www.scientificlinux.org/), both free products, despite being derived from the paid product, RHEL. Fedora is similar to CentOS in that it has strict open-source licensing requirements for all software included in its official repositories. Despite this there are proprietary binary blobs on its build of the Linux kernel. Users that want/require other pieces of proprietary software will likely be able to easily get them by enabling the [RPMFusion non-free repository](https://download1.rpmfusion.org/nonfree/fedora/) and [RPMFusion free repository](https://download1.rpmfusion.org/free/fedora/) (as many packages in the non-free repository depend on packages in the free repository). This can be done by running:

{% include Code/coder.html line1="dnf install -y https://download1.rpmfusion.org/nonfree/fedora/rpmfusion-nonfree-release-$(lsb_release -a | grep 'Release' | cut -d ':' -f 2 | sed 's/\s//g').noarch.rpm https://download1.rpmfusion.org/free/fedora/rpmfusion-free-release-$(lsb_release -a | grep 'Release' | cut -d ':' -f 2 | sed 's/\s//g').noarch.rpm" %}

where `$(lsb_release -a | grep 'Release' | cut -d ':' -f 2 | sed 's/\s//g')` uses `lsb_release` to determine the version of Fedora you are running (for example, for me running Fedora 25 executing `lsb_release -a | grep 'Release' | cut -d ':' -f 2 | sed 's/\s//g'` in my terminal returns `25`) so as to determine the RPMFusion RPM you need to install. RPMFusion non-free repository most notably contains `broadcom-wl` (the closed-source driver for Broadcom wireless), `lpf-spotify-client` (which is a script to build the Spotify Client from the Debian binaries officially released by the Spotify Company) and [`steam`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steam_(software)) (the gaming platform). It is not completely comprehensive, however, and is missing RuneScape's NXT Client, among other pieces of software. Alternatively users that need/want proprietary software, especially those that want out-of-the-box support for devices with proprietary drivers should consider installing Chapeau. The main difference between Chapeau and Fedora is that Chapeau is not quite as strict on the licensing of its included software and the software in its official repositories.

Fedora is a Linux distribution that is best suited for intermediate-advanced users, especially software developers. Most notably, [Linus Torvalds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds), the original and lead developer of the Linux kernel is a Fedora user. It is ideal for users that:
* Like open-source software, but do not love it enough to use the Linux-libre kernel, but do not mind having proprietary repositories available should they wish to use them. If you have a preference for a system that is not quite so strict on open-source you may wish to install Chapeau instead, as it has out-of-the-box support for Broadcom wireless among other devices.
* Favour having the very latest the open-source world has to offer over the well-tested, conservative stability of distributions such as CentOS and Debian.
* Use CentOS, RHEL or derivatives thereof at work or elsewhere and want to use something similar, but more bleeding-edge at home.
* Want a distribution that patches its software as little as possible. Fedora is well-known in the open-source community to work with upstream developers, in the form of bug reports, and usually the only patches one will find packages have are designed to fix bugs reported upstream, until the next release of said software comes out with the bug fix.

The OBS can be used to build packages for Fedora, although it has limitations that Fedora's own Copr package-building service does not have. Namely, it often lags behind Coprs in terms of support for building packages for new releases of Fedora. For example, it took over a month after the release of Fedora 25 before the OBS began to support building packages for Fedora 25. Coprs can also provide internet access for package builds, which the OBS does not.

Fedora also has a development version called [Rawhide](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Releases/Rawhide) which gets all the very latest software updates (including developmental software updates. For example, release candidates of the Linux kernel often make an appearance in Rawhide's repositories) and follows a rolling release model. It is not intended for production use and should only be used by advanced users that know how to fix/workaround system-breaking bugs (like kernel bugs that prevent booting, which semi-frequently occur). Fedora's Copr build system also provides support for building packages for Rawhide.

{% include Layouts/clear.html %}
