## Manjaro Linux
{% include_relative infoboxes/10-manjaro.html %}

[**Manjaro Linux**](https://manjaro.org/) is a beginner-friendly and out-of-the-box Linux distribution that is based on Arch Linux. Compared to its parent distribution (that is, Arch Linux) it has several important differences, for one it has an official graphical installer, [Calamares](https://calamares.io). Although I should clarify, Calamares is not an installer specifically made for Manjaro, in fact its development is completely independent from that of Manjaro and it is designed to be a distribution-agnostic installer, it just happens to be the installer that Manjaro's live media comes with. Manjaro also used to ship with the home-grown [Thus](https://github.com/manjaro/thus) installer, giving users the choice of using either Calamares or Thus, but Thus has since become deprecated. 

Manjaro uses its own package repositories that are distinct from those of Arch Linux, but most packages in these repositories are derived from the corresponding packages in Arch Linux's repositories (and merely re-packaged with sometimes some slight modification for Manjaro) or the AUR. Manjaro also ships with the latest LTS release (presently 4.4.x) of the Linux kernel by default (as opposed to Arch Linux which ships with the latest stable kernel). It has out-of-the-box Broadcom wireless support and the latest installation media (version 16.10.3) comes with `linux44-broadcom-wl` pre-installed. While it has out-of-the-box support for several common devices including Broadcom chips and NVIDIA graphics cards, it has no proprietary desktop applications like Google Chrome or Spotify in its official repositories. 

It also has its own home-grown tool for automatic hardware detection, specifically for detecting graphics cards, `mhwd` (short for *Manjaro Hardware Detection*).

It is best suited to users that prefer a beginner-friendly distribution (with out-of-the-box support for popular extraneous devices such as Broadcom chips and NVIDIA graphics cards), but one where bug-wranging may sometimes be required (as it is more on the bleeding-edge side of the spectrum, than on the stable side) and those that need/want amongst the most extensive software repositories of any Linux distribution known. It is also suited to beginners who want to get started with Linux packaging, as pacman packages are amongst the easiest to develop. 

{% include Layouts/clear.html %}
