## openSUSE
{% include_relative infoboxes/11-opensuse.html %}

[**openSUSE**](https://www.opensuse.org/) is a popular Linux distribution that traces its origins back to the early 1990s, when a group of German computer science/mathematics students decided to create their own Linux system and sell it on floppy disks. They also founded a company to sell the floppy disks and called it S.u.S.E. (short for the German name *Software und System Entwicklung mbH*). Later the full name (from which the acronym was derived) was dropped but they kept the acronym and they changed it to SuSE, then later SUSE and finally to SUSE Linux. SUSE Linux was eventually acquired by Novell and, in 2005, the openSUSE Project was launched. Unlike SUSE (which is now defunct, and has been largely replaced with SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES) which was launched in 2001), openSUSE's development is open to the public (as opposed to be kept in-house at SUSE) and the public is encouraged to contribute (via submitting patches and bug report).

As its name suggests openSUSE has a focus on open-source and its default, official repositories only contain open-source software (OSS), aside from the binary blobs on its kernel. A default installation of openSUSE does not included any proprietary software, except for the aforementioned kernel binary blobs. It does have a non-OSS official repository, but this repository does not contain all that many popular pieces of proprietary software and excludes Broadcom wireless drivers, for instance. For Broadcom wireless one will need to use the unofficial [PackMan repositories](http://packman.links2linux.org/).

Its default package manager is [ZYpp](https://en.opensuse.org/Portal:Libzypp) (which is invoked by the command `zypper`), which has the official graphical front-end [YaST](https://en.opensuse.org/Portal:YaST). ZYpp is a front-end to RPM, putting it in the same boat as DNF, urpmi and yum. ZYpp is unusual amongst Linux package managers in that it is written almost entirely in C++, most others are written in C, Python and/or Shell. My guess is the reason for the rarity of Linux package managers written in C++ is that Linus Torvalds hates the language, favouring C, among other languages. ZYpp is a surprisingly slow package manager and is, in fact, slower than the other major RPM package management front-ends (except perhaps DNF, but they are close in speed, at least) like DNF, urpmi and yum, all of which are predominantly written in interpreted languages (these are usually slower than compiled languages like C++) like Perl or Python (for further details see [this earlier post](/comparison-of-package-managers/)).

openSUSE is also unusual in that it has two editions: a fixed release edition, Leap, and a rolling release edition, Tumbleweed. Leap was the original edition of openSUSE and is still the most popular. The Tumbleweed edition attempts to be bleeding-edge, but is not as bleeding-edge as Arch Linux or a bleeding-edge Gentoo Linux system. Usually kernel updates come out so slowly that a new stable upstream release of the kernel will be out by the time the present version of the kernel is added to the official Tumbleweed repositories.

It is one of the most democratic Linux distributions in the world, that is, its development is more guided by the will of the users and developers than by an individual dictator. They have a [board](https://en.opensuse.org/openSUSE:Board) for making some decisions, with the chair appointed by SUSE (or Novell, as SUSE is now a subsidiary of Novell) and the other 5 members appointed by the community. Most members of this board (except for one whom is in Portland in the U.S.) reside in central and eastern Europe. Other decisions are made by other community-guided mechanisms.

I personally have successfully created two packages for openSUSE using the Open Build Service, for [Blockify](https://github.com/serialoverflow/blockify) (and yes it is also built for Fedora in my OBS project) and another for [Vim](http://www.vim.org/) (with `vim-fedora` providing Vim for Fedora). These packages can be found [here](https://build.opensuse.org/project/show/home:fusion809).

openSUSE is ideal for intermediate-advanced users that:

* Love open-source, but not enough to use the Libre kernel.
* Favour distributions with a relatively long fixed release cycle (one new minor release every year) or rolling release model.
* Like distributions that use the RPM package manager.
* Favour democratic distributions over authoritarian ones.
* Like/need distributions with fairly comprehensive, but not as comprehensive as say Arch Linux or Gentoo, repositories. This may include someone that likes to/needs to use obscure/proprietary pieces of software (e.g., Spotify), or people that perform reviews of several pieces of Linux software on a regular basis.
* Like packaging new/obscure pieces of open-source software. The Open Build Service (OBS) is more oriented towards openSUSE users (as it is, in fact, provided as a free public service of the openSUSE Project) and is easier to use on openSUSE than on other distributions. Far more pieces of software are packaged for openSUSE in the OBS than they are for other distributions. Beware though that the OBS only accepts open-source pieces of software, if you try to build proprietary software there odds are it will be eventually found and deleted by the admin of the OBS.
* Do not need out-of-the-box support for hardware with proprietary drivers only.
* May require some free support. The [openSUSE Forums](https://forums.opensuse.org/) are usually quite helpful. Their response times are usually not quite as good as Ask Ubuntu, though, but they are usually adequate enough. Plus I have found the community more polite or at least slower to anger and negative assumptions than Arch Linux and Sabayon Linux's.

{% include Layouts/clear.html %}
