
## Atom
{% include Links/image.html image="Atom/Atom-1.7.2.png" width="100%" description="The Atom text editor (v1.7.2) opened to this very blog post, with an embedded terminal (provided by the `terminal-plus` package) shown" float="none" %}

**Atom** is a free, MIT-licensed text editor that is built using web technologies and developed by GitHub. It started out as a side project of Chris Wanstrath, one of GitHub's founders, in mid 2008. It is built using the **Electron framework** (previously called Atom Shell) for buildng cross-platform desktop applications using web technologies. It is extensively customizable, yet also simple enough, for someone that has never used a text editor in their life, to pick up in no time without help. Despite this it is a large application with its binaries being &gt;50 MB and taking up &gt;200 MB hard drive space when installed, additionally its boot times are fairly long and it is only in the official repositories of two Linux distributions that I am aware of, namely, Gentoo Linux and Sabayon Linux. Further details about it can be found in the [*Running Atom on Linux*](/running-atom-on-linux) post.

In my opinion Atom's main advantages over other text editors are that despite being simple enough for a primary school (or elementary school as it is referred to in some countries) student to use it, it can be customized to one's heart's content. This customization can be done via the following methods:

* Editing one's **own configuration files** &mdash; these are files found in one's `~/.atom` folder and include (if these files are missing for you personally, you can create them): `config.cson` (the main configuration file), `keymap.cson` (the keymap configuration file), `init.coffee` (the init script file) and `styles.less` (the custom stylesheet).
* Writing one's **own Atom package** &mdash; this can be used to modify (or add to) the behaviour of Atom or add new features to Atom. In order to do this you need to be well-versed in the CoffeeScript (CS) and JavaScript (JS) programming languages, unless you fork an existing package and merely make minor modifications to said package. You can share your packages publically in Atom's own package registry. The best tutorial on writing Atom packages that I have seen can be found [here](http://www.sitepoint.com/how-to-write-a-syntax-highlighting-package-for-atom/).
* Writing one's **own Atom theme** &mdash; themes modify the aesthetics (or appearance) of Atom. In order to do this well it is best to have a good understanding of the CSS and Less stylesheet languages. I have created my own Atom theme {% include Atom/apm.md theme="fusion-ui" puncl="(" puncr=")" %} by forking an existing Atom theme {% include Atom/apm.md theme="accents-ui" puncl="(" puncr=")." %}
