### Customization
In my opinion Atom's main advantages over other text editors are that despite being simple enough for a primary school (or elementary school as it is referred to in some countries) student to use it, it can be customized to one's heart's content. This customization can be done via the following methods:

* Editing one's **own configuration files** &mdash; these are files found in one's `~/.atom` folder and include (if these files are missing for you personally, you can create them): `config.cson` (the main configuration file), `keymap.cson` (the keymap configuration file), `init.coffee` (the init script file) and `styles.less` (the custom stylesheet).
* Changing **Atom themes** to one already available in the [Atom theme repository](https://atom.io/themes). This will change how Atom looks, but it will not add any extra functionalities to Atom (as extra functionalities are provided by *packages* not themes).
* Installing an existing **Atom package** found in the [Atom package repository](https://atom.io/packages). This should not change the aesthetics of Atom, but it will modify the behaviours and feature-set of Atom.
* Writing one's **own Atom package** &mdash; this can be used to modify (or add to) the behaviour of Atom or add new features to Atom. In order to do this you need to be well-versed in the CoffeeScript (CS) and JavaScript (JS) programming languages, unless you fork an existing package and merely make minor modifications to said package. You can share your packages publically in Atom's own package registry. The best tutorial on writing Atom packages that I have seen can be found [here](http://www.sitepoint.com/how-to-write-a-syntax-highlighting-package-for-atom/).
* Writing one's **own Atom theme** &mdash; themes modify the aesthetics (or appearance) of Atom. In order to do this well it is best to have a good understanding of the CSS and Less stylesheet languages. I have created my own Atom theme {% include Atom/apm.md theme="fusion-ui" puncl="(" puncr=")" %} by forking an existing Atom theme {% include Atom/apm.md theme="accents-ui" puncl="(" puncr=")." %}

Installing Atom themes and packages can be done via the command-line with {% include Code/codeus.html line1="apm install $PLUGIN" %} where `$PLUGIN` is to be replaced with the name of the package or theme in question (case is important! No spaces are allowed), or it can be done from within Atom itself. To install a package/theme from within Atom open your Preferences Tab (which can be done by going to <code>Edit&rarr;Preferences</code>). Then, open the `Install` menu.
