## What is Linux?
{% include Layouts/note.md note1="Further information about Linux can be found in the [glossary](/glossary/#linux)" %}

**Linux** is a &gt;300-member family of [Unix-like](/glossary/#unix-like) operating systems, that share one common, defining characteristic: they use the Linux kernel as their [operating system](/glossary/#operating-system) kernel. The majority of these operating systems also use [GNU Project software](/glossary/#gnu) for their basic Unix utilities and hence have also been referred to as **GNU/Linux** systems. Each individual member of the Linux family of operating systems, is called a &ldquo;Linux distribution&rdquo; (for which I will be using the acronym, LD and the abbreviation &ldquo;distro&rdquo;). The most important differences between Linux and Windows from the point of view of standard users:<sup id="fnref:1"><a href="#fn:1" class="footnote">1</a></sup>

* Most LDs are available free of charge,<sup id="fnref:2"><a href="#fn:2" class="footnote">2</a></sup> while Windows is not. If you have bought a new computer with Windows preinstalled and you are thinking, "I did not pay for Windows, it came with the computer." I am afraid you are mistaken. Part of the cost of your computer was likely for the Windows operating system that came preinstalled on it. Unless otherwise stated, all LDs mentioned by name in this post are available free of charge.

* Linux is [Unix-like](/glossary/#unix-like), Windows is not. Windows systems do not follow the Unix design philosophy and as such have fundamental differences from corresponding Linux systems. These differences are most evident by examining the file system structure of Windows and comparing it to that of Unix-like systems such as Linux. Windows uses single-letter, with a colon afterward, prefixes to distinguish between hard disks. `C:` is used for the hard drive on which the presently-running Windows system is booting from. Folders in Windows are denoted using back-slashes `\`, for example, a user named Brenton's home directory may be located at `C:\Users\Brenton`. Linux's file system, on the other hand, does not use any suffixes and rather uses forward-slashes to denote directories. For example, a user named Brenton would have a home directory at `/home/Brenton`. The file system structure of Linux systems is described in greater detail in [this section](#file-system).

* A variety of desktop environments (DEs). On Windows systems you are stuck with one desktop or graphical user interface (which looks a little different between Windows versions), your customization options beyond changing your wallpaper, are fairly limited, unless you use some DLL hacks which can be damaging to your system. Linux systems have a variety of different desktop environments available, each can be customized according to your own preferences, without damaging your system. The most popular Linux desktop environments, include: Cinnamon, Enlightenment, GNOME, KDE, LXDE, LXQt, MATE and Xfce. Of these Cinnamon, KDE, LXDE and Xfce look the most like Windows NT. KDE and Xfce are the most popular of these DEs, while LXDE and Xfce uses up the least CPU and RAM of these. If you would like to have an OS X-like look to your Linux system I suggest using the less popular Deepin or Pantheon desktop environments.

* Different software. You will not be able to take some of your applications with you when transitioning from Windows to Linux. Some applications run solely on Windows while others run only on Windows and OS X. Most [proprietary games](/glossary/#proprietary-software) you have run on Windows will not run on Linux, or if they do they will likely not run as well. The only real exception are games written in the Java programming language (for example, *RuneScape*), as they run on any Java-capable platform, including Linux. Some Windows applications can be run on Linux by use of emulation software such as VirtualBox and Wine. For further details see the [running Windows applications under Linux](#running-windows-apps) section. Most [free and open-source software](/glossary/#free-and-open-source-software), however, will run most natively on Linux.

* Freedom. Linux has far more customizability options, for both the aesthetics of the system and its programs, and how its programs work and behave. You can make your Linux system look like OS X, Windows or something completely different.

* How software is installed. Windows software is usually installed via downloading and installing files with the `.exe` or `.msi` file extensions. Installing Linux software is usually a little more complex. Most software is installed via the specific distro's package manager.
