## Which Distribution is best for me to start out with?
The best distribution for you to start out with, greatly depends on several variables. So many, that I cannot give you a straight answer, rather you will have to find out which distribution is best for you via experience. The easiest distribution for Windows users to use as a first distribution would have the following characteristics:

1. A graphical and easy-to-use package manager. Most Windows users are not particularly comfortable with using the command-line for installing software packages and this is why a graphical package manager is probably best.
2. Large software repositories containing thousands of at least fairly up-to-date software packages. This way the user will need to use alternate methods to install the software they need in fewer cases. These alternate methods are usually more difficult and error-prone.
3. Liberal requirements on software package licensing. Some distributions only have FOSS in their software repositories, while others are more liberal and have some freeware in there too. Many programs you may wish to install are not FOSS. For example, most graphics cards and Wi-Fi chips have [proprietary drivers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Device_driver) or firmware that either outperforms their corresponding open-source driver/firmware or for which there is no corresponding open-source driver/firmware. My Lenovo Laptop, for example, has dual Intel and NVIDIA graphics cards as well as a Broadcom BCM43228 Wi-Fi chip. There are FOSS drivers for my graphics cards, which usually have inferior performance to their corresponding proprietary drivers. My Wi-Fi chip, however, requires proprietary firmware from the Broadcom corporation itself, so in order to access my Wi-Fi I need to install this firmware.
4. A graphical installer. A graphical program for installing the distro, this is as opposed to distros that must be installed from the command-line, which can be quite disconcerting to Windows users.
5. Out-of-the-box support for most hardware, like popular graphics cards and Wi-Fi chips. "Out-of-the-box" in this context, at least, means that this support exists by default, you do not have to do anything to get this support yourself.
6. A large and friendly online support community. This way if you encounter any errors with your installation, you can easily and quickly get free help.

Most distributions fulfill at most four of these requirements. Examples of such distributions include, with the requirements they fulfill listed in brackets:

* [Fedora](https://getfedora.org/) (1, 2, 4, 6), a distribution developed by its own FOSS community, but sponsored by Red Hat, the largest Linux company in the world. It has strict licensing requirements for all software in its official repositories, which means that many proprietary multimedia codecs, graphics drivers and Wi-Fi drivers will need to be installed from third-party sources like [RPM Fusion](http://rpmfusion.org/). Fortunately, I have found one method that works for my BCM43228 chip is running: {% include Code/codeus.html line1="wget http://git.io/vuLC7 -v -O fedora23_broadcom_wl_install.sh && sh ./fedora23_broadcom_wl_install.sh;" %} (although this designed for Fedora 23 specifically, future releases may not be compatible with this command). I personally have found it more difficult to pick up than Ubuntu, but it uses, generally more up-to-date software than Ubuntu. It has inferior community support, in my opinion, to Ubuntu, however. The main support site for it that I have used is [Ask Fedora](https://ask.fedoraproject.org/). It has a less popular derivative with more liberal software licensing requirements and out-of-the-box support for Broadcom chips, [Chapeau](http://chapeaulinux.org/).

* [Linux Mint](http://linuxmint.com/) (1-6), a Ubuntu-based distribution developed by a community of unpaid volunteers. It is built on the Long-Term Support (LTS) releases of Ubuntu which come out in April of even-numbered years (e.g., the last one was in April 2014) and are designed to be especially stable, although their software tends to lag behind that of newer Ubuntu releases. Its chief advantage, in my opinion, over Ubuntu is that it has better out-of-the-box support for several proprietary multimedia codecs (codecs are programs required to play certain multimedia files) and graphics drivers. It does **not** have out-of-the-box support for Broadcom chips with proprietary firmware like mine. I have not used its community support, personally, so I cannot comment on its quality. It has a Windows-like look, though, with a task bar (or panel) across the bottom of the screen.

* [Manjaro Linux](https://manjaro.github.io/) (1-6), an Arch Linux-based distribution that unlike Arch Linux itself is very beginner-friendly. It too is developed by its own FOSS community. It has out-of-the-box support for most graphics cards, multimedia codecs and Broadcom chips like mine. It has even more up-to-date software than Fedora, so if you want the latest software I would recommend using Manjaro. I find some members of its online support community seem to require evidence that you are working three times as hard as they are to solve the issue you are requesting them to help you with. You can install just about any Linux-compatible program (including proprietary programs) on Manjaro, either from its own repositories or from the [Arch User Repository](https://aur.archlinux.org) (AUR) of Arch Linux.

* [openSUSE](https://www.opensuse.org/) (1, 2, 4, 6), a distribution developed by its own FOSS community and sponsored by Novell, another Linux company. It has the largest installation ISOs (that is, the files you use to install it) of any distribution mentioned here, with its live DVD ISO being 4.3 GB. Despite this, it has similarly poor out-of-the-box support for most proprietary codecs and drivers. openSUSE comes in two main flavours: Leap and Tumbleweed. Leap is more stable and popular, yet uses older software. Tumbleweed uses later software (usually a little less up-to-date than Manjaro Linux, though) but is maybe a little less stable (although I am presently using it and have never noticed any stability issues). On the plus side its online support community is amongst the friendliest I have come across. openSUSE's official repositories are, at least, mostly FOSS, but several user-maintained unofficial repositories housed by the [Open Build Service](https://build.opensuse.org) (OBS) contain proprietary software, including Spotify.

* [Sabayon Linux](http://sabayon.org/) (1-5), a distribution with similarly extensive, out-of-the-box support to Manjaro. Like Manjaro, however, it is also based on a non-beginner-friendly distro, except in Sabayon's case this distro is Gentoo Linux and not Arch Linux. Most of Sabayon's software is as up-to-date as the corresponding Manjaro software, although some programs may lag behind. Its chief disadvantage is its small online support community, which I have found can a little more testy than that of openSUSE. Its official software repositories contain some freeware packages like Spotify too.

* [Ubuntu](http://ubuntu.com) (1, 2, 4, 6), a distribution that is well-known for its beginner-friendliness. It is developed by a Linux company called Canonical Ltd. Its software is usually more out-of-date than all other distributions mentioned in this post, except for openSUSE Leap. It has got the best support community, in terms of response times, in my opinion. Specifically it has a StackExchange website called [AskUbuntu](http://askubuntu.com) that I find quite good. Its official repositories contain mostly FOSS, along with some proprietary drivers. Several unofficial Personal Package Repositories (PPAs) exist, however, although I am yet to find one containing Spotify, probably because a Spotify repository is provided and maintained Spotify AB (the company that develops Spotify).

If you have a fairly old computer, with an older CPU, little RAM and hard drive space to spare then odds are you will be best to stick to Fedora (namely, the LXDE edition), openSUSE Tumbleweed (in the automated installer you will need to choose the LXDE desktop, however) or Ubuntu (namely, the Lubuntu spin). In order to pick the best distribution for you, I would recommend trying out whichever distribution you think would be best for you in VirtualBox ([here](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) is the Download page), before installing it on your hard drive. A nice video tutorial on installing VirtualBox on Windows 7 and then installing Ubuntu 14.04 in VirtualBox can be found [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QkJmahizwO4) on YouTube. VirtualBox is best run on a PC with at least 4 GB RAM, 3 CPUs, and 20 GB hard drive space free.
