## Which PC?
Which computer should you run Linux on? Well the answer is not clear-cut, virtually any computer *can* run Linux, but some computers will have some hardware components that are off-limits to Linux. See one area in which Linux really lags behind the two more popular operating systems, Windows and OS X, is the availability of compatible device drivers. **Device drivers** (or just **drivers**) are computer programs that operate or control a particular type of device that is attached to a computer. Many devices require proprietary drivers. Example devices that sometimes require, or work better with, proprietary device drivers include some graphics cards and Wi-Fi chips.


This is because it supports a larger variety of different CPUs than these two proprietary operating systems. Linux can even run on older computers that do not meet the CPU or RAM requirements of the latest releases of Windows or OS X. The only problem is that some pieces of hardware like a laptop's Wi-Fi chip may be incompatible with Linux, but compatible with Windows or OS X. This is because by-and-large Linux is less compatible with proprietary software than these two proprietary operating systems, and this includes the firmware required to use these chips.

Both of the laptops I use on a regular basis use Broadcom Wi-Fi chips. My newest laptop uses a chip that is incompatible with Linux (I cannot remember the specific make though), so until that is rectified I have it running Windows, and my other laptop uses a BCM43228 chip which is compatible with Linux, but requires some proprietary firmware that is not in the repository of most distributions I have used. The only exceptions are Manjaro and Sabayon Linux.
