---
layout:           post
title:            "How I switched from Arch Linux to openSUSE Tumbleweed"
date:             2016-02-09 +1000
categories:       opensuse, linux, arch-linux
redirect_from:
  - /opensuse-tumbleweed/
---

Yesterday, 8 February 2016, I experienced an issue with Xorg / my graphics card on my Arch Linux installation after rebooting that prevented me from accessing SDDM, LightDM and the desktop environments I had set up (the exact time this was, would have been roughly 3-4 am, Australian Eastern Standard Time [AEST, or UTC+10]). I spent about an hour trying to fix it myself, guided by the ArchWiki documentation,  but then I asked for help at the [Arch Linux forums](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=1602691) and instead of receiving the help I was looking for, I received rude treatment from one of the forum's admins and a series of failed solutions from others in the forum. If all I was getting was failed solutions, with no abuse, odds are I would have stuck it out for a while longer, as obviously no one is God, we all make mistakes as we do not know everything, so I was prepared for several failed attempts to fix my problem before an actual successful solution would come along, but I have had to deal with this sort of abuse or rudeness before on other Linux forums and I was sick of it, so I decided to jump ship to openSUSE Tumbleweed.

The natural question is "Why openSUSE Tumbleweed? Why not *distribution X*?" Well, there were several factors guiding my decision. For one, I wanted a distribution that followed a rolling release model, as I loath having to upgrade systems that use a standard release model (e.g., for three years, as I have previously stated on this blog, I used Ubuntu and only Ubuntu, as my Linux distribution and it has to be upgraded like this every six months), as it always seems something gets broken in the process. I also wanted a distribution for which there was a decently-sized team of developers maintaining its packages, repositories and other components, as I had past experience with a distribution with a small development team, Sabayon, and I knew from this distribution that no matter how "bleeding edge" they claim their system is, some packages inevitably slip through the cracks and become out-of-date. Additionally, I was interested in using a fairly popular distribution as more popular distributions tend to have better free support, like online forums and IRC channels. I also wanted a distribution with an intuitive and easy-to-use automated installer, as while I had managed to install Arch without one, it made the process a little less straight-forward. Also I wanted a distribution with enough stability so that I would never experience the graphics issues I had experienced with Arch Linux. 
