## Portage
[**Portage**](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Portage) is the default package manager of Gentoo Linux and many of its derivatives, including Calculate and Funtoo Linux. It is written in Python and Bash script and unlike all other package managers mentioned in this post it works with source code packages, by default. As such there are several differences between it and other package managers, in term of how it operates.

Its chief repository is found in the `/usr/portage` directory (the so called "Portage Tree"), which is structured similarly to the FreeBSD ports system and contains ebuilds, a specialized type of Bash script, along with patch files and Manifests (a file that contains checksums and file size information about ebuilds and other files). This structure is such that the top-level subdirectory of `/usr/portage` is for package categories like `app-editors` for text editors, `x11-wm` for window managers, *etc.*, the next lower level is for specific packages (e.g., `/usr/portage/app-editors/gvim` is where gVim ebuilds and related files can be found). ebuilds contains instructions that Portage can use to build a binary software package (in the `.tbz2` format) and/or install the software package from source code or a binary package from another distribution (e.g., Debian packages and RPM packages).

Unofficial Portage repositories (which are more commonly referred to as *overlays*), have the same internal file structure to the Portage Tree, that is, their top-level subdirectories are package categories and their subdirectories are for specific packages. They are managed by a tool also developed by the Gentoo Foundation called Layman which stores its repositories in `/var/lib/layman`. For example, `/var/lib/layman/sabayon-tools`, if it exists on one's system, would contain my Portage overlay, [`sabayon-tools`](https://github.com/fusion809/sabayon-tools). Layman is written in Python too and is not included with Gentoo Linux by default (although it is included with Sabayon Linux, by default) and instead has to be installed with Portage before it can be used.  

### Beginner-Friendliness
Portage is probably the least beginner-friendly package management system mentioned in this post, its syntax is less than intuitive and quite frequently installing, removing and upgrading software is not as simple as running a single command. It has no official graphical front-ends, although an unofficial one called Porthole ([`app-portage/porthole`](https://packages.gentoo.org/packages/app-portage/porthole)) is available from the Portage Tree. Despite this it does have pretty high-quality documentation for a Linux package manager, so the really motivated and persistent beginners could probably learn how to use it without needing help from others. Overall I would rank it at **3/10** for beginner-friendliness.

### Customizability
Being a source code package manager Portage affords users almost infinite control over the package on their system. 

{% include_relative Portage/table-5-basic-usage-examples.html %}
