## 0 A.D.
{% include Infoboxes/game.html game="0 A.D." logo="0_A.D..png" logo_width="200px" screenshot="0_A.D._a21.png" screenshot_caption='Screenshot of <i>0 A.D.</i> alpha 21, codename "Ulysses"' date="2001<sup><a href='#fn:1' class='footnote'>1</a></sup>" basis="Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings" developers="Wildfire Games" license="GPLv2, MIT, MPL 2.0, <i>etc.</i><sup><a href='#fn:2' class='footnote'>2</a></sup>" genre="Real-time strategy" development="Alpha" language="C++" website="<a href='https://play0ad.com/' link='_blank'>play0ad.com</a>" wiki="<a href='http://0ad.wikia.com/wiki/0_A.D._Wiki' link='_blank'>0ad.wikia.com</a>" platforms="FreeBSD, macOS, NetBSD, OpenBSD, Windows NT" github="0ad/0ad" irc="#0ad" irc-server="quakenet.org" sf="zero-ad" %}

***0 A.D.*** is a free and open-source, historic real-time strategy (RTS) game. In it, the player is the leader of an ancient civilization and they must defeat their opponents by amassing a sufficiently large military force. Its name is a deliberate misnomer, as the year *0 A.D.* never existed, rather 1 B.C. was the year directly before 1 A.D. The ancient civilizations that can be lead, or played against, in *0 A.D.* are those that were present between 500 B.C. and 500 A.D.

It can be played as a single player, or one can play against other players. In single player mode one can play against bots and leader-less teams. By leader-less teams I mean there is no bot leading the team, the people belonging to these teams only behave per the default behaviour. For example, if they are attacked they usually attack back; if they see your people, they may also attack if they are a military unit; otherwise they stay still and do nothing. There are two different bots one can play against: Petra Bot and Tutorial AI. For each bots there are six levels of difficulty one can set them to (sandbox, very easy, easy, medium, hard and very hard). *0 A.D.* has several maps on which one can play, there are mods available for the game (with different civilizations available, for example, there is a mod for Asian civilizations).

It utilizes its very own Pyrogenesis game engine; both *0 A.D.* and the Pyrogenesis game engine are written in C++. *0 A.D.*'s graphics are perhaps the best of any open-source Linux-compatible game I have ever seen. In fact, its graphics rival that of many proprietary games like *Age of Empires III* (AoE III) and *RuneScape*. I would argue that *0 A.D.*'s graphics are superior to that of AoE III, as I have used both and found *0 A.D.*'s graphics better. *0 A.D.* is developed by Wildfire Games, an international team of volunteer developers, funded by Software in the Public Interest, Inc. (SPI), a U.S. non-profit organization that also funds several other open-source software projects including Arch Linux, Debian and LibreOffice.{% include_relative fn-inline.html no="3" %}

### Availability
*0 A.D.* is one of the easiest games to get on Linux, the majority of Linux distributions have a *0 A.D.* package in their official repositories (usually named `0ad`, with game content placed in a separate package called `0ad-data`), including:{% include_relative fn-inline.html no="4" puncr="," %}{% include_relative fn-inline.html no="5" %}

* {% include Packages/archlinux.html no="1" repo="community" arch="x86_64" package="0ad" puncr="," %} *0 A.D.* also has an [unofficial package](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/0ad-git) in its Arch User Repository that builds *0 A.D.* from the latest git snapshot. 
* CentOS 7, the [EPEL repository of CentOS 7](https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/7/x86_64/0/) provides the very latest version (alpha 21) of *0 A.D.*
* {% include Packages/debian.html no="1" package="0ad" puncr="," %} Debian 8 (Jessie) even has the latest *0 A.D.* in its backport repository. The latest *0 A.D.* is also in the testing and unstable repositories. The oldstable (Wheezy), oldstable-backports and stable (Jessie) repositories contain outdated *0 A.D.* releases. 
* deepin, the official repositories presently house the second-latest release of *0 A.D.*, alpha 20. 
* {% include Packages/fedora.html no="1" package="0ad" puncr="," %} presently the latest *0 A.D.* release is in the repositories of all supported Fedora releases (24, 25, 26 and rawhide). 
* {% include Packages/gentoo.html no="1" package="games-strategy/0ad" puncr="," %} the latest and second-latest releases of *0 A.D.* are presently in testing (that is, have `~` in their keyword field for both `x86` and `amd64`). 
* {% include Packages/mageia.html no="1" package="0ad" puncr="," %} the fairly old releases alpha 18 and 19 are available for Mageia 5. 
* Manjaro Linux, has the latest *0 A.D.* available from its official repositories. 
* {% include Packages/opensuse.html no="1" package="0ad" puncr="," %} the official repositories of Tumbleweed has the latest *0 A.D.*, but Leap releases 42.1 and 42.2 do not have 0 A.D. in their official repositories, although the unofficial `games` repository does have the latest *0 A.D.* for these two Leap releases. 
* [PCLinuxOS](http://rpm.pbone.net/index.php3/stat/4/idpl/34712537/dir/pclinuxos/com/0ad-0.0.21-1pclos2016.x86_64.rpm.html), which presently has the latest *0 A.D.*
* {% include Packages/sabayon.html no="1" package="games-strategy/0ad" puncr="," %} presently has the latest *0 A.D.* available from its official repositories.  
* {% include Packages/ubuntu.html no="1" package="0ad" puncr="," %} only the latest stable release of Ubuntu, Zesty (17.04), has the latest *0 A.D.* release in its official repositories. 

{% include Layouts/clear.html %}
