## Busy/Impatient Techies
If you have less free time to install and then configure your Linux system, but still want a great deal of freedom over your system and would like the very latest software then I think [**Arch Linux**](https://www.archlinux.org) will be the distribution for you. While it is still challenging for newcomers to set up Arch Linux, it is nowhere near as challenging as Gentoo is. Maintaining Arch Linux is also far simpler and easier, upgrading an Arch system is as simple as running a single command {% include Code/coders.html line1="pacman -Syu --noconfirm" %} from the command-line.

Arch Linux uses its own binary package manager called pacman, which also comes with a command-line tool (called `makepkg`) to build binary packages from source code using the instructions found in a specialized type of Bash script called a **PKGBUILD**. Arch Linux has its own online repository of PKGBUILDs provided by the community, for use installing software not in the pacman binary package repository. This repository is called the Arch User Repository. Writing PKGBUILDs, I can tell you from personal experience writing both ebuilds and PKGBUILDs, is far simpler than writing ebuilds. If I see a package I want to install on my Arch system that is not available via the usual channels, odds are within an hour I would have written a working PKGBUILD, and using makepkg created and installed a binary package from it. The same can most certainly not be said for ebuilds on my Gentoo VMs.

I usually find the software in Arch's official repositories tends to be a little more up-to-date than the latest version in the Portage Tree. Although if you want to always have the latest Linux kernel, then I would suggest you use Gentoo Linux instead of Arch Linux, because I tend to find there is quite a delay between the release of the latest kernel and its addition to Arch's core repository. Although usually the latest kernel will be added to the Portage Tree within a few hours of it being released. This being said, it is worthwhile noting that the Portage Tree took over two months to get the 3.18 release of GNOME, so I still stand by my previous statement that Arch's repository tends to be a little more up-to-date than that in the Portage Tree. If you want/need the latest kernels, but do not want to use Gentoo due to how long installing software and maintaining the system takes, I would suggest you use Sabayon Linux instead as it is a Gentoo derivative that also has its own binary package manager which has repositories that contain the vast majority of packages you probably want/need on your system, including the latest kernels. 

**Fedora** &mdash; it is the only distribution mentioned in this section that comes with an automated installer, which makes it easier to install. Despite this it is often said to be a developer's distribution, because it uses the very latest software for the most part. In fact Linus Torvalds, the developer of the Linux kernel, is said to use Fedora on all his PCs. Although I should warn you that it does **not** follow a rolling release model, so new releases need to be installed over older releases, which can become a pain seeing how a new release comes out roughly every six months.
