## Busy Techies
### Arch Linux
If you have less free time to install and then configure your Linux system, but still want a great degree of freedom over it and would like the very latest software, the same day it is released, then I think [**Arch Linux**](https://www.archlinux.org) will be the distribution for you. While it is still challenging for newcomers to set up Arch Linux (as there is no automated installer and it comes with no pre-installed GUI, so everything must be done from the command-line), it is nowhere near as challenging or tedious as Gentoo is to install or maintain. Like Gentoo, Arch follows a rolling release model, but unlike Gentoo upgrading an Arch system is as simple as running a single command {% include Code/coders.html line1="pacman -Syu --noconfirm" %} from the command-line. Arch is also more limited in the CPU architectures it supports, with support for only arm, i686 and x86_64 architectures.

#### Package Management
Arch Linux uses its own binary package manager called pacman, which also comes with a command-line tool (called `makepkg`) to build binary packages from source code using the instructions found in a specialized type of Bash script called a **PKGBUILD**. The pacman package also provides other commands, to list them all run {% include Code/codeu.html line1="pacman -Qlq pacman | grep /usr/bin" %} Arch Linux has its own online repository (that since August 2015 has been managed by git) of PKGBUILDs provided by the community, for use installing software not in the pacman binary package repository, it is called the **Arch User Repository** (**AUR**). Writing PKGBUILDs, I can tell you from personal experience writing both ebuilds and PKGBUILDs, is far simpler than writing ebuilds. If I see a package I want to install on my Arch system that is not in the pacman repos or the AUR, odds are within an hour I would have written a working PKGBUILD, and using makepkg created and installed a binary package from it. The same can most certainly not be said for ebuilds on my Gentoo VMs, odds are I will not be able to write a functioning ebuild for the package at all and if I do manage it, odds are it would take me several hours. Even bumping existing ebuilds to a later version of the package they provide, is something I sometimes fail to do properly.

I usually find the software in Arch's official repositories tends to be a little more up-to-date than the latest version in the Portage Tree. Although if you want to always have the latest Linux kernel, then I would suggest you use Gentoo Linux instead of Arch Linux, because I tend to find there is quite a delay between the release of the latest kernel and its addition to Arch's core repository. Although usually the latest kernel will be added to the Portage Tree within a few hours of it being released. This being said, it is worthwhile noting that the Portage Tree took over two months to get the 3.18 release of GNOME, so I still stand by my previous statement that Arch's repository tends to be a little more up-to-date than that in the Portage Tree. If you want/need the latest kernels, but do not want to use Gentoo due to how long installing software and maintaining the system takes, I would suggest you use [**Sabayon Linux**](https://www.sabayon.org/) instead as it is a Gentoo derivative that also has its own binary package manager which has repositories that contain the vast majority of packages you probably want/need on your system, including the latest kernels. It still has Portage, however, although if you use Portage on Sabayon you cannot expect any support from the Sabayon community, according to the developers of Sabayon.

pacman is, in my opinion, by far the fastest package manager in terms of how quickly it installs software. It is written predominantly in C and its binary packages are xz-compressed, with the file extension `.pkg.tar.xz`. I personally would give pacman five stars out of five, in terms of how much I like it as a package manager.

Arch Linux has some of the best written documentation available, which is community-written and online at [*The ArchWiki*](https://wiki.archlinux.org). It also has its [own forums](https://bbs.archlinux.org) and IRC channel {% include Links/irc.html channel="archlinux" %} (although you need to register your nick before you can login to this channel) which should answer any question you have relating to Arch within a day or two, with a little luck.

### Fedora
[**Fedora**](https://getfedora.org/) comes with an automated installer (which can be run from both the command-line and graphically), which makes it easier to install and uses the DNF package manager for package management. DNF is essentially a faster version of yum, it shares most of yum's source code the only significant difference is that DNF uses some of openSUSE's ZYpp package manager's components to speed up its notoriously slow dependency resolution. Despite this it is often said to be a developer's distribution, because it uses the very latest software for the most part. In fact Linus Torvalds, the developer of the Linux kernel, is said to use Fedora on all his PCs. Although I should warn you that it does **not** follow a rolling release model, so new releases need to be installed over older releases, which can become a pain seeing how a new release comes out roughly every six months. When new releases of Fedora come out it is usually has the very latest kernel and desktop environments (its default desktop is GNOME), although with time its kernel usually will become out-of-date. For example, I have a VM for Fedora 23 which is running the 4.3.3 kernel as of 30 January 2015, even though the 4.4.0 kernel was released 10 January 2015.

I would probably give DNF three to four stars out of five, as it is fairly slow, despite it being an improvement over yum. One feature I like about it are package groups, which can be used to install a whole set of required packages. Like to install the KDE desktop one would run:
{% include Code/coder.html line1="dnf install -y @kde-desktop" %}

### Sabayon Linux
**Sabayon Linux** as previously mentioned is a Linux distribution with both a binary package manager and source code package manager, Entropy and Portage, respectively. Both are written in Python and to a lesser extent, Bash script. Entropy's repositories contain binary packages created using Portage and then converted from Portage binary packages to Entropy packages using Entropy itself. I find Entropy fairly slow at dependency resolution, package decompression and installation, which I suspect may be related to the fact it is written in an interpreted language like Python instead of a compiled language such as C and C++ like the faster package managers, APT, pacman and ZYpp, are. Sabayon also comes with its own automated installer, which was previously the Anaconda installer (used by Fedora) but is now Calamares. Installing and maintaining Sabayon using Calamares and Entropy, respectively, is simple enough for me to believe that non-techies could manage it. Users that want packages not in the Entropy repositories can use Portage to install them from either the Portage Tree or the unofficial Portage overlays. Sometimes, however, you may find packages you want that are not in the Portage Tree or unofficial overlays, in these cases you would do what you would do on Gentoo, that is, write an ebuild for the package you want.

Entropy would receive four stars out of five from me. It is fairly easy to use, but it is also fairly slow. The Entropy repositories are usually fairly up-to-date, but you will find the odd piece of out-of-date software in them. See only two people maintain these repositories, in their spare time (to my knowledge they both have full-time jobs too, so needless to say their spare time is not a vast resource) and there are over 13,000 packages in there so it is inevitable that a few will slip through the cracks.
