## Business/Server Use
The best distributions for these purposes usually use fairly out-of-date software and follow standard release cycles. This is because older software is usually better-tested, hence it is better established that such software is stable without any apparent bugs. Standard release cycles are used for a reason that escapes me, my guess is it is because rolling release cycles are traditionally used for distributions using the very latest software, so maybe they do not wish to break with tradition. Examples of such distributions include:
* [**CentOS**](https://www.centos.org/) &mdash; a Fedora derivative, that essentially looks like and has the same software as Fedora two years ago, which includes the older package manager, yum. CentOS has a few notable derivatives too like Oracle Linux (which comes with optional paid support), Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL, I do not promote this distro as you need to buy it to use it) and Scientific Linux.
* [**Debian**](https://www.debian.org/) &mdash; the eldest Linux distribution mentioned in this post, it was first founded in 1993. Has four major software repositories (or branches), each varying in their level of stability and the currency of their software (in the following list they are ordered in ascending level of stability): experimental, unstable, testing and stable. Most users use the default stable branch which contains software between 1 and 3 years old. The stable branch is very stable and is a popular server distribution, in fact it is roughly tied with Ubuntu for the position of most popular server distro. 
