---
layout:     post
date:       30-01-2016 +1000
categories: linux, newcomers
title:      "What's the best Linux distribution for newcomers?"
---

A few days ago I saw a post in the Arch and Manjaro Facebook Group (that has since been deleted) asking what would be the best Linux distribution for a computer science student to try as a first distribution. The replies varied quite significantly from Gentoo Linux (which is a real turn off even for the most experienced Linux users, due to how much work it is to setup and then maintain a Gentoo system, some die-hard fans of the system exist, but for me at least Gentoo is just too much of a headache) to Linux Mint and Ubuntu. While I have done a [comparison of free operating systems](/2016/01/07/comparison-of-free-operating-systems), I felt this query deserved its own post.

When I first started using Linux in mid 2012, the only distribution that I could possibly handle without becoming totally discouraged by the apparent difficulty for me to transition from Windows NT systems to Linux systems, was Ubuntu. But that was me, someone with limited knowledge and little aptitude for computers and technology in general and even less patience for a system that did not work out-of-the-box, while a computer science student on the other hand probably would not mind getting pushed a little further into the deep end of Linux than myself. This post is designed to offer suggestions as to the best Linux distribution for people with specific skill sets, interests, levels of patience, *etc.*

In general, if you are uncertain as to which distribution I mention here, to try (all of which are available free of charge &mdash; I do not endorse proprietary software or operating systems), I suggest you try all those you think, based on what I am saying, would be best for you, in a VirtualBox Virtual Machine. [Oracle VM VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) (or VB for short) is a free and open-source cross-platform software application in which you can run almost any and every Linux distribution you could run on a physical machine, without ever logging out or fiddling with your partitions. If you go the [download page](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) for VirtualBox you will find binary packages you can use to install VB on a variety of platforms including Linux, OS X, Solaris and Windows NT (Vista or later). Every Linux distribution mentioned in this post can be run in a VirtualBox VM (I know because I have tried them all).

## Best distro for patient techies: Gentoo Linux
If you know a lot about technology, are great at figuring out what to do based on online documentation, are *very* patient, do not need your Linux system to run out-of-the-box, love freedom in deciding the characteristics of your operating system and are willing to spend hours of your time just trying to install and configure your system to your liking, then [**Gentoo Linux**](https://www.gentoo.org) maybe the Linux distribution for you. Although I would definitely suggest you try it in a VirtualBox VM before you try to install it on your physical machine because it is possible that it will frustrate you so much that you will give up on it early on.

I find Gentoo a nightmare to be honest, as upgrading your system is nowhere near as simple as running a single command from the command-line like it is on most Linux distributions, updating your kernel may make you become violent in frustration and system breakage is definitely not unheard of. Despite this, it is very customizable, in fact it is so customizable that Gentoo has been called a meta-family of distributions, to refer to the fact that two systems built on the same date, from the same live ISO for Gentoo Linux, can end up becoming so different from one another that they can even be considered distinct Linux distributions. This customizability is due to Gentoo's unique package management system, **Portage**, which is also a source of most of the frustration I have experienced with Gentoo.

Portage, unlike all the other package managers mentioned in this post which all install software from binary packages by default, installs software the longer, more error-prone and CPU/RAM-intensive way: from source code. Installing software from source code is what is key to Gentoo's customizability, as this means that every package installed can be installed just the way the user wants. See when you install software from source code generally speaking you will go through five major stages, which Portage handles wire to wire:
1. Getting the dependencies.
2. Preparing the source code, applying any necessary patches in order for the following steps to go smoothly.
3. Configuring the source code.
4. Compiling the source code.
5. Installing the compiled program.
step 3 is where Portage really distinguishes itself from other package managers, see step 3 is where one usually decides which features of the software will be built and which will not be built, by providing the program's `configure` or `autogen.sh` script with what I will call "configuration parameters". Portage gives users full control over this step by use of "USE Flags" which are keywords that tell Portage which features of a software package it should and should not build. They essentially correspond to the "configuration parameters" I mentioned earlier. Package managers working with binary packages, on the other hand, usually only ship with software packages built with a single set of maintainer-selected configuration parameters, which essentially means end-users are stuck with the configuration parameters the maintainer(s) of the package wanted, with no freedom to set these parameters themselves.

Portage building software from source code is also key to Gentoo's name. See Gentoo Linux is named after Gentoo penguins &mdash; the fastest species of penguin, to refer to the fact that by installing all its software from source code, instead of relying on binary packages, it is hoped that Gentoo systems will be the faster than their binary counterparts. I have set up VirtualBox VMs with Gentoo installed on them and never have I noticed any striking improvement in speed or performance of software running under Gentoo, as opposed to it running under binary distributions like Arch Linux. Then again, any speed improvement between Gentoo and binary distribution is likely to be modest &mdash; less than I can even notice. The only speed-related issue I have noticed on these VMs is the increased time it takes to install software with Portage, as opposed to the time it takes with binary package managers like pacman.

Portage builds software using instructions set forth in a specialized type of Bash script called an ebuild, which are a feat in themselves to learn, even with some prior Bash knowledge. Each individual ebuild has instructions telling Portage how to build a specific software package, and by a specific package I mean a specific program with a specific version number, for example, one ebuild may tell Portage how to build the 1.4.0 release of the Atom text editor. Portage uses its own type of repository, called an overlay, to contain its ebuilds. The default Portage overlay is called the Portage Tree and is found in `/usr/portage`. In here are ebuilds developed and maintained by the Gentoo Foundation. Gentoo also has a tool for adding extra Portage overlays called layman, which adds new overlays to `/var/lib/layman`, some of these extra Portage overlays are maintained by members of the Gentoo Foundation, but the vast majority are not and are instead maintained by Gentoo users with no affiliation with the Gentoo Foundation. For example, I have my own Portage overlay called [`sabayon-tools`](https://github.com/fusion809/sabayon-tools).

The Portage Tree, along with the other available overlays maintained by layman, also contain several different release versions of the same software package, which is something that distinguishes them from the vast majority of binary distributions, which usually only have a single version of each software in their repositories. For example, see [here](https://packages.gentoo.org/packages/sys-kernel/gentoo-sources) for the different versions of the package `sys-kernel/gentoo-sources` available from the Portage Tree, this package if you are wondering as to its significance, is the kernel for Gentoo Linux. These different available software versions also adds to the freedom of Gentoo.

The fact that Portage builds software from source code also allows Gentoo to run on a large number of different computer architectures. The number of different CPU architectures supported by Gentoo is, to my knowledge, second only to Debian in the Linux world. Portage has even been ported to a few different non-Linux Unix/Unix-like operating systems including the &#42;BSDs (especially FreeBSD). Portage is also written in Python, which allows advanced users to script with Portage more freely.

Something else that distinguishes Gentoo from most, but not all, binary distributions is its **release model**. See Gentoo follows the rolling release model, which means there is never any need to upgrade one's Gentoo system by deleting the old version of the operating system and installing the new version over it.

### Helpful Links and Resources
* [Installation Handbook for X86 Systems](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Handbook:X86/Installation/About) (note, the architecture of this guide is irrelevant, that is, you should be able to install Gentoo on say an AMD64 system while still following this X86 installation guide)
* {% include Links/irc.html channel="gentoo" %} &mdash; Gentoo IRC support channel.

## Best distro for impatient or busy techies: Arch Linux
* **Arch Linux** &mdash; it is still challenging for newcomers to set up Arch Linux, but not as challenging as setting up Gentoo. Maintaining Arch Linux is far simpler and easier, upgrading an Arch system is as simple as running a single command {% include Code/coder.html line1="pacman -Syu --noconfirm" %} from the command-line. It also follows a rolling release model, generally speaking you will find Arch's software tends to be a little more up-to-date than Gentoo's, but I have seen software packages where the reverse is also true.
* **Fedora** &mdash; it is the only distribution mentioned in this section that comes with an automated installer, which makes it easier to install. Despite this it is often said to be a developer's distribution, because it uses the very latest software for the most part. In fact Linus Torvalds, the developer of the Linux kernel, is said to use Fedora on all his PCs. Although I should warn you that it does **not** follow a rolling release model, so new releases need to be installed over older releases, which can become a pain seeing how a new release comes out roughly every six months.
