{% include Links/image.html image="Atom-1.3.2.png" width="1130px" float="none" description="Atom 1.3.2 running under the Deepin Desktop Environment (DDE) on Manjaro Linux" %}

**Text editors** (**TEs**) are essential programs for software developers and programmers in general, as they enable users to write and edit source code or markup files. They are popular tools used by both experienced and novice Linux users. In this post I will compare the various *free and open-source* text editors available for Linux, with regard to several features and properties of each. It is important to note that I am not an experienced programmer, my experience with programming is limited to mostly MATLAB/GNU Octave scripts, a small handful of Python scripts I wrote for technical computing (that is, numerical analysis), some C/C++ programs I have written and a collection of Shell scripts I have written (mostly to automate some common tasks I perform on Linux).

Also covered in this post are *free and open-source* **integrated development environments** (see [here](#integrated-development-environment) for a definition), or **IDEs** for short, which are essentially text editors with extra tools for programmers. Many of the IDEs compared here I have even less experience with than I do with standard text editors, as I only occasionally need them.

Many high-quality open-source IDEs and TEs will run quite natively on Linux, the most notable exceptions I can think of are Notepad++ and SharpDevelop which, while open-source, will only run on Microsoft Windows. This post is designed to be distribution-agnostic, as I want all Linux users to be able to benefit from it equally. As such, I will not mention distribution-agnostic commands or methods for installing the programs in question.
