## Visual Studio Code
{% include Links/image.html image="VScode/VSCode-1.4.0.png" width="1130px" float="none" description="Visual Studio Code 1.4.0 running on Ubuntu 16.04" %}

[**Visual Studio Code**](https://code.visualstudio.com) (or **VSCode** for short) is an open-source text editor developed by Microsoft. It is intended to be a lightweight counterpart to the proprietary Visual Studio IDE. Like Atom, it too is built on the Electron framework and is written in web languages such as JavaScript, TypeScript and Less. As such it is cross-platform supporting Linux, OS X and Windows NT. Like Atom it is extended using plugins (or extensions as they are officially referred to) written in web languages, although unlike Atom these plugins must be installed from VSCode's own interface and cannot be installed from the command-line. In contrast to Atom, VSCode has fewer plugins available, a seemingly smaller community (although the differences in the size of their communities are likely modest) and less complete out-of-the-box support for popular programming languages. Although its support for the C# programming language is superior to that of Atom (specifically it has autocomplete/linter features provided by the <span class="package"><a href="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.csharp" link="_blank">C#</a></span> extension), even when extra plugins are installed for Atom. Likewise it has out-of-the-box support for code debugging, an embedded terminal and git version-control, which are features that Atom requires additional plugins to provide.

VSCode, in my opinion, is a better markdown writer than Atom, as it has an extension that provides <span class="package"><a href="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=seanmcbreen.Spell" link="_blank">grammar and spell-checking</a></span> support, in contrast to Atom's core {% include Atom/apm.md package="spell-check" %} package which provides only spell-checking (and by default only supports American English).
