## 0 A.D.
{% include Layouts/games-infobox.html width="400px" game="0 A.D." logo="0_A.D..png" screenshot="0_A.D._a21.png" screenshot_caption='Screenshot of 0 A.D. alpha 21, codename "Ulysses"' screenshot_width="400px" date="2001<sup><a href='#fn:1' class='footnote'>1</a></sup>" basis="Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings" developers="Wildfire Games" development="alpha" license="GPLv2, MIT, MPL 2.0, <i>etc.</i><sup><a href='#fn:2' class='footnote'>2</a></sup>" genre="Real-time strategy" development="Alpha" language="C++" %}

**0 A.D.** is a free and open-source, historic real-time strategy (RTS) game. In it, the player is the leader of an ancient civilization and they must defeat their opponents by amassing a sufficiently large military force. Its name is a deliberate misnomer, as the year 0 A.D. never existed, rather 1 B.C. was the year directly before 1 A.D. The ancient civilizations that can be lead in 0 A.D. were those present between the time periods of 500 B.C. and 500 A.D. It can be played as a single player, or one can play against other players. 

It utilizes its very own Pyrogenesis game engine; both 0 A.D. and the Pyrogenesis game engine are written in C++. 0 A.D.'s graphics are perhaps the best of any open-source Linux-compatible game I have ever seen. In fact, its graphics rival that of many proprietary games like Age of Empires III (AoE III) and RuneScape. I would argue that 0 A.D.'s graphics are superior to that of AoE III, as I have used both and found 0 A.D.'s graphics better. 0 A.D. is developed by Wildfire Games, an international team of volunteer developers, funded by Software in the Public Interest, Inc. (SPI), a U.S. non-profit organization that also funds several other open-source software projects including Arch Linux, Debian and LibreOffice.{% include_relative fn-inline.html no="3" %}
