## pacman
[**pacman**](https://www.archlinux.org/pacman/) is the default package manager of Arch Linux and its various derivatives as well as at least two supposedly &ldquo;independent&rdquo; distributions, Frugalware Linux and KaOS. It adheres quite strictly to the Arch philosophy of keeping it simple, at least to those that understand it well enough. See, its syntax is far from intuitive or straight-forward to a beginner, in fact, it can quite easily become confusing, but once one understands pacman and how it works well enough, it becomes clearer. It is written almost entirely in C and this likely contributes to the fact that it is probably the fastest Linux package manager available today. Its packages have the `.pkg.tar.xz` file extension and are generated by running the `makepkg` command (which is provided by the `pacman` package) in a directory in which a specialized Bash script called a PKGBUILD is located. Its first stable release was in February 2002.[^1]

Arch Linux has two main types of repository: the pacman repositories which pacman accesses and uses to install software and the Arch User Repository (AUR). The AUR is managed by git and presently contains over 30,000 different PKGBUILDs for packages that are not in the pacman repositories and as pacman itself does not have access to this repository this leaves one with far fewer packages to choose from. Fortunately, however, several [&ldquo;AUR helpers&rdquo;](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/AUR_helpers) exist that have access to both the AUR and the pacman repositories. When it comes to installing packages in the AUR what many of these helpers will do is they will download the PKGBUILD (either by git cloning the AUR repository in which it lies or downloading a tarball snapshot of this repository), install any missing dependencies with either pacman or from the AUR, then build the package with `makepkg` and install it with pacman. The most popular AUR helper, which is also the one I have the greatest experience with, is Yaourt, which has a pacman-like syntax. So running {% include Code/coders.html line1="yaourt -S atom-editor" %} should build and install `atom-editor` from the AUR.

### Beginner-Friendliness
As previously mentioned pacman has a syntax that is non-intuitive to newcomers, for example, to install a package one runs {% include Code/coders.html line1="pacman -S $package" %}, while to remove it one runs {% include Code/coders-fs.html line1="pacman -Rsc $package" %} If you are interested in making the transition from another package manager to pacman, I suggest you read the [Pacman/Rosetta](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Pacman/Rosetta) article at *The ArchWiki*.

### Customizability
pacman's settings are stored in `/etc/pacman.conf`

From {% include Code/coders.html line1="time pacman -S vim --noconfirm" directory="/home/fusion809" %} I received the output:

~~~
warning: vim-7.4.1294-1 is up to date -- reinstalling
resolving dependencies...
looking for conflicting packages...

Packages (1) vim-7.4.1294-1

Total Installed Size:  2.70 MiB
Net Upgrade Size:      0.00 MiB

:: Proceed with installation? [Y/n]
(1/1) checking keys in keyring                     [######################] 100%
(1/1) checking package integrity                   [######################] 100%
(1/1) loading package files                        [######################] 100%
(1/1) checking for file conflicts                  [######################] 100%
(1/1) checking available disk space                [######################] 100%
:: Processing package changes...
(1/1) reinstalling vim                             [######################] 100%

real	0m0.464s
user	0m0.227s
sys	0m0.067s
~~~

so it took **0.464s** total to reinstall this package.
